Welcome back everyone.
In this lecture we're going to do some pre process into the data.
We've already taken care of missing values and converted any categorical values to either continuous
calls or dummy variables.
Now it's time to perform a train test split and normalize the data afterwards.
We can then create the model.
Let's get started okay.
Here we are back at the notebook.
The next step is to import train test split from psychic learn so we can do that simply by saying from
S.K. learn that model selection.
Go ahead and import train test split.
And after we'd done that the next task is to drop the lone status column we created earlier since it's
essentially a duplicate of the loan repaid column and we'll use the loan repaid column since it's already
in zeros and ones.
So we'll do the following we'll say the f is equal to the F thought drop and then say loan underscore
status and then say axis is equal to 1.
OK after that we'll set x and y variables to the values of the feature and the label so we can do that
by simply saying X is equal to D F go ahead and drop loan repaid along axis is equal to 1.
And I just want the values there and then Y is going to be equal to the F loan repaid and then grab
those values and run that all right.
Now this next step is completely optional it really depends on how you're running this.
So if you're not running this on the Google Cloud Platform and instead you're running this locally.
If you have lower ram or you're not using GP you you may want to optionally to save a little bit on
the train time.
Just grab a sample from this entire dataset.
Keep in mind if you only grab a sample you probably won't perform as well because you're not seeing
as many correct examples.
So there are methods here for you to sample and that is you can say the F sample and you can provide
a sampling that you want to take maybe only want to take 10 percent or 20 percent of the data and set
that as your data frame.
Since I'm running this on a GP I'll go ahead and keep the entire data frame but keep in mind if you're
just kind of following along but don't really need to spend all the time with the training.
You could take just a sample of the data next we'll perform a train test split so we can simply say
train test split we'll go ahead and copy this from the doc string.
So scroll down here until you see this result.
Copy and paste that in and we'll go ahead and set our test size to zero point two and to make sure you
get the same split I do.
Go ahead and set your random state to this arbitrary value of 1 0 1.
We run that and now that we've done the train test split we can normalize our data.
We'll go ahead and use them in Max scalar that we've been using throughout the course we'll say from
scalar and pre processing import min max scalar create an instance of that min max scalar and then go
ahead and start transforming your data.
So we'll say X train is equal to scalar and we'll just call a fit transform in one step on our current
x training dataset run that and then for the X test dataset we don't want to fit to that we just want
to transform to prevent any data leakage from our test set.
Okay so we've normalized the data and then up next we'll go ahead and create the model so we'll see
you in the next lecture where we focus on creating the model we'll see other.